From today's featured article
Yoshi's New Island is a 2014 platform game developed by Arzest and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo 3DS. The third installment in the Yoshi's Island series, it is set between the events of Yoshi's Island (1995) and Yoshi's Island DS (2006). Like its predecessors, Yoshi's New Island's gameplay revolves around safely transporting the infant Mario to his brother Luigi by completing a series of levels across an island. The player characters are dinosaurs known as the Yoshi species; each dinosaur is named Yoshi and has a unique color. Yoshi's New Island received mixed reviews from critics, who praised its sense of charm and nostalgia, but were divided on its art style, level design, and difficulty. Criticism was directed toward its soundtrack—which some considered repetitive—and the game's perceived lack of originality in comparison to its predecessors. The game was reissued as part of the Nintendo Selects line in 2016, and by 2020, it had sold more than two million copies worldwide. Yoshi's New Island was succeeded by Yoshi's Woolly World for the Wii U in 2015. (Full article...)
Recently featured: New England Revolution in international competitionPoisoning of Margaret WardenExhumation and reburial of Richard III of England
ArchiveBy emailMore featured articlesAbout
Did you know ...
Rachel Henning
Rachel Henning
... that the letters of Rachel Henning (pictured) were "deleted, distorted, and defaced" by their editor, according to one scholar?
... that one of the few jazz proponents of the euphonium was 20th-century musician Rich Matteson?
... that Jalal Baleedi played for a professional football club before becoming an Islamist militant?
... that a reviewer described the delivery game Easy Delivery Co. as "Silent Hill meets Animal Crossing meets DoorDash"?
... that Japanese photographer Ken Domon praised the Standing Statue of Kichijōten as the "most perfect depiction of feminine beauty among all the Buddhist images in Japan"?
... that Edith Maryon's relief In Memory of Theo Faiss commemorates a seven-year-old boy who, according to Rudolf Steiner, was sacrificed to protect a building?
... that the Unterrified Democrat was owned by a Republican?
... that English psychiatrist Ann Dally was twice disciplined by the General Medical Council for her approach to prescribing controlled drugs to heroin addicts?
... that a 17th-century Mughal painting includes a saint who is depicted as transparent since he is said to occupy a different plane of reality?
ArchiveStart a new articleNominate an article
In the news
Faustin-Archange Touadéra in 2025
Faustin-Archange Touadéra
Faustin-Archange Touadéra (pictured) is re-elected as the president of the Central African Republic.
Delcy Rodríguez is sworn in as interim president of Venezuela following the capture of Nicolás Maduro and United States strikes on the capital.
Luke Littler wins the PDC World Darts Championship.
A fire at a bar during New Year's Eve celebrations in Crans-Montana, Switzerland, kills 40 people.
Bulgaria adopts the euro, becoming the 21st member of the eurozone.
Ongoing: Iranian protestsRusso-Ukrainian war timelineSudanese civil war timeline
Recent deaths: Ron BoswellColin McDonaldNora IkstenaJules RadichDavid BranchDoug LaMalfa
More current eventsNominate an article
On this day
January 7: Victory over Genocide Day in Cambodia (1979); Tricolour Day in Italy (1797)

Guy Menzies
Guy Menzies
1327 – The Parliament of 1327, which was instrumental in the transfer of the English Crown from King Edward II to his son, Edward III, began at the Palace of Westminster.
1931 – Australian aviator Guy Menzies (pictured) flew from Sydney to New Zealand's West Coast, making the first solo trans-Tasman flight.
1978 – An article entitled "Iran and Red and Black Colonization" was published in the newspaper Ettela'at attacking Ruhollah Khomeini, then in exile in Iraq.
1989 – In one of the most famous upsets in FA Cup history, Sutton United, a team in the fifth tier of English league football, defeated top-tier Coventry City.
Nicholas Hilliard (d. 1619)Helena Válková (b. 1951)Johnny Owen (b. 1956)Eden Hazard (b. 1991)
More anniversaries: January 6January 7January 8
ArchiveBy emailList of days of the yearAbout
From today's featured list
Chuck Mosley
Chuck Mosley
American musician, singer and songwriter Chuck Mosley recorded more than 100 songs during his career, both as a solo artist and as a member of Faith No More, Cement, and Primitive Race. Mosley began his career in Los Angeles, performing in the local bands the Animated and Haircuts That Kill, before joining Faith No More in 1983. He appeared on two albums with the group, We Care a Lot (1985) and the follow-up Introduce Yourself (1987), before being fired for "erratic behaviour" the following year. After Faith No More, Mosley briefly joined the group Bad Brains before moving on to form Cement. The latter group released two albums – Cement and The Man with the Action Hair – before a bus accident, which left Mosley with a broken back, curtailed their career. Mosley then left the music industry for several years before returning in 2009 with his solo debut, Will Rap Over Hard Rock for Food. He joined the musical supergroup Primitive Race for their album Soul Pretender, which was released a week before his death in 2017. (Full list...)

Recently featured: U.S. Figure Skating ChampionshipsAdaptations of Manon LescautSongs recorded by Jimi Hendrix
ArchiveMore featured lists
Today's featured picture
Black-capped chickadee
The black-capped chickadee (Poecile atricapillus) is a small, nonmigratory passerine bird in the tit family, Paridae. The species is native to North America, ranging from the northern United States to southern Canada and all the way up to Alaska and Yukon, living in deciduous and mixed forests. It has a distinct black cap on its head, a black bib underneath, and white cheeks. The black-capped chickadee has a white belly, buff sides, and grey wings, back, and tail. It is well known for its vocalizations, including its fee-bee song and its chick-a-dee-dee-dee call, from which it derives its name. The black-capped chickadee feeds primarily on insects and seeds, and is known for its ability to cache food for use during the winter. Its hippocampus grows during the caching season, and is believed to help it better remember its cache locations. It builds nests in tree cavities, with the nesting season starting in late April and lasting until late June. This foraging black-capped chickadee was photographed in Central Park, New York City.